# Goal - Describe serverless functions

Serverless functions allow developers to build and deploy software without the hassle of maintaining the underlying hardware and OS that would be required to run the software. Security updates and management of the underlying OS layer is generally managed by a provider which allows development teams to focus on the software as the core product. Security aspects of the software and its operations remain the responsibility of the development team.

Software deployment consists of uploading the software to the serverless provider which packages it into an image, runs the image in the container, and then instantiates the software on an underlying host and OS. In this model, much of the control of the underlying details are abstracted away. 

Some trade-offs to consider
- Monitoring is more difficult as you will have no control or ability to monitor the underlying performance of the container image. This includes limited logging that you may have with other container orchestration engines that are maintained by the team.
- Security is solely at the discretion of the team and may suffer from certain deficiencies
	- Increased attack surface as there may be less ways to control traffic (e.g. a WAF)
	- Complexity of the software may increase the attack surface. This is due to the fact you are building the full software suite to run which may have been microservice containers. For example, the frontend (web) and backend (API) built and running as a single application.
	- Security testing is a concern due to the limited visibility that you may have

